# CMake JSON Extensions <!-- omit in toc -->

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

## Extensions

### Package

Data may be defined on a [Package](../JSON.md#package) in the `extended` property for the `cmake` extension.
Suppose the package JSON looks like follows:

```json
{
    "extended" : {
        "cmake" : {}
    }
}
```

The `cmake` object under the `extended` property on the package is where additional information specific to
this extension can be defined. This object is a [Package Extension](#package-extension) object.

### Package Rule

Data may defined on a [Package Rule](../JSON.md#package-rule) in the `extended` property for the `cmake`
extension. Suppose the package JSON looks like follows:

```json
{
    "rules" : [
        {
            "extended" : {
                "cmake" : {}
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

The `cmake` object under the `extended` property on the package rule is where additional information specific
to this extension can be defined. This object is a [Package Rule Extension](#package-rule-extension) object.

## Reference

### Module Extension

An object defining some additional CMake-specific data on a [Module](../JSON.md#module).

```json
{
    "directoryProperties" : {},
    "directoryPropertyChanges" : [],
    "sources" : [],
    "targetProperties" : {},
    "targetPropertyChanges" : [],
    "variables" : {},
    "variableChanges" : []
}
```

### Module Rule Extension

### Package Extension

An object defining some additional CMake-specific data on a [Package](../JSON.md#package).

```json
{
    "directoryProperties" : {},
    "directoryPropertyChanges" : [],
    "tests" : [],
    "testResourceData" : {},
    "testResourceMethod" : {},
    "variables" : {},
    "variableChanges" : {}
}
```

- `directoryProperties` : **[optional]** the [Directory
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-directories)
  that will be set on the directory for the Package (either from source or the one generated by Burt). The
  keys of this object are the names of the directory properties and their values are strings. These values are
  set after the [Project Extension](#project-extension) directory properties in `directoryProperties` are set.
  See the [Directory Properties](./Concepts.md#directory-properties) concept for details.
- `tests` : **[optional]** an object where the keys are the names of the [Tests](./Concepts.md#tests) (which
  must be unique) and the values are the [Test](#test) objects defining each test.
- `testFixtures` : **[optional]** an object where the keys are the names of the [Test
  Fixtures](./Concepts.md#test-fixtures) and the values are the [Test Fixture](#test-fixture) objects defining
  each test fixture.
- `testResourceData` : **[conditionally required]** the contents of this property depend on the value of the
  `testResourceMethod` property.
- `testResourceMethod` : **[optional]** the method to use to define the resources available for tests. If this
  is omitted, no test resources will be defined for tests. The valid values are:
  - `json` : the available resources data is embedded in this object in the `testResourceData` property or via
    a file referenced as a string in the `testResourceData` property. The format of the file or the contents
    of the object in `testResourceData` are defined in the [Resource Specification
    File](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ctest.1.html#resource-specification-file) documentation.
    Note that when embedding, the entire contents of that format are included (including the version).
  - `test` : the name of the test is stored in the `testResourceData` property as a string.

### Package Rule Extension

```json
{
    "directoryProperties" : {},
    "directoryPropertyChanges" : [],
    "tests" : [],
    "testFixtures" : [],
    "variables" : {},
    "variableChanges" : [],
}
```

### Project Extension

The data for the `cmake` extension in the `extended` property of a [Project](../JSON.md#project).

```json
{
    "directoryProperties" : {},
    "directoryPropertyChanges" : [],
    "testResourceSpecification" : {},
    "variables" : {},
    "variableChanges" : []
}
```

- `directoryProperties` : **[optional]** the [Directory
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-directories)
  that will be set on the project source directory. Each key in this object is the name of a property and each
  value is a string that will be set as the value of the property. See the [Directory
  Properties](./Concepts.md#directory-properties) concept for details.
- `directoryPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** changes that will be made to inherited [Directory
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-directories) on
  the project source directory. Each entry in this array is a [Property Change](#property-change) object and
  the changes are applied in the order they are specified in this array. See the [Directory
  Properties](./Concepts.md#directory-properties) concept for details.
- `globalPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** changes that will be made to [Global
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-of-global-scope)
  when the project is processed. Each entry in the array is a [Property Change](#property-change) object.
- `targetProperties` : **[optional]** the default [Target
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-targets) that
  will be set on targets in the project. The keys of this object are the names of the properties and the
  values are strings. These property writes are done immediately after the target is created and before
  package and module target properties are set.
- `testProperties` : **[optional]** the default [Test
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-tests) that
  will be set on tests in the project. THe keys of this object are the names of the properties and hte values
  are strings. These property writes are done immediately after the test is created and before the package
  and module test properties are set.
- `testResourceSpecification` : **[optional]** the [test resource
  specification](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ctest.1.html#resource-specification-file) to be
  used by default for tests in this project. This may either be a string specifying the path to the file or it
  may be the resource specification. In either case, the JSON format is defined in the
  [specification](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ctest.1.html#resource-specification-file).
- `variables` : **[optional]** the values of [CMake
  Variables](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-language.7.html#cmake-language-variables) set in
  the scope of the project. The keys are the names of the variables and the values are the strings defining
  the value of the variables in the scope of the project. See the [Variables](./Concepts.md) concept for
  details.
- `variableChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Variable Change](#variable-change) objects that define
  modifications to values of variables in the scope of the project. These changes are applied in the order
  they are defined here before any packages are processed in the project.

### Project Rule Extension

The data for the `cmake` extension in the `extended` property of a [Project Rule](../JSON.md#project-rule).

```json
{
    "directoryProperties" : {},
    "directoryPropertyChanges" : [],
    "globalProperties" : {},
    "globalPropertyChanges" : [],
    "variables" : {},
    "variableChanges" : []
}
```

- `directoryProperties` : **[optional]** the values of [directory
  properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-directories) to
  be set when the [Project Rule](../JSON.md#project-rule) condition is met. The keys are the names of
  properties and the values are the values to be set on the properties. The properties set here overwrite the
  properties set in the `directoryProperties` property on the [Project Extension](#project-extension) under
  the [Project](../JSON.md#project) containing the package rule. See the [Directory
  Properties](./Concepts.md#directory-properties) concepts for details.
- `directoryPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Property Change](#property-change) objects defining
  changes that will be made to the values of [Directory
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-directories).
  This is different from `directoryProperties` in that it allows augmenting the value of the property rather
  than simply overwriting it. These changes are applied after the values defined in `directoryProperties` are
  set. See the [Directory Properties](./Concepts.md#directory-properties) concept for details.
- `globalPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Property Change](#property-change) objects defining
  changes that will be made to the values of [Global
  Properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-of-global-scope).
  See the [Global Properties](./Concepts.md#global-properties) concept for details.
- `targetProperties` : **[optional]** the values of [target
  properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-targets) that
  will be set on targets in the project by default. These property values are set immediately after the target
  is created and overwrite any default values of the properties. The keys in this object are the names of the
  properties and the values are strings that will be set as the property values. See the [Target
  Properties](./Concepts.md#target-properties) concept for details.
- `targetPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Property Change](#property-change) objects defining
  changes to be made to properties of targets after they are created. These changes make it possible to
  augment the default value of properties without overwriting (string append, for example). See the [Target
  Property](./Concepts.md#target-properties) concept for details.
- `testProperties` : **[optional]** values of [test
  properties](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-tests) that
  will be set on test in the project by default. These property values are set immediately after the test is
  created and overwrite any default values of the properties. The keys in this object are the names of the
  properties and the values are strings that will be set as the property values. See the [Test
  Properties](./Concepts.md#test-properties) concept for details.
- `testPropertyChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Property Change](#property-change) objects defining
  changes to be made to properties of tests after they are created. These changes make it possible to
  augment the default value of properties without overwriting (string append, for example). See the [Test
  Property](./Concepts.md#test-properties) concept for details.
- `variables` : **[optional]** the [CMake
  Variables](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-language.7.html#cmake-language-variables) to be
  set if the containing [Project Rule](../JSON.md#project-rule) condition is met. The keys of this object are
  the names of the variables and the value is the variable value. The variable value is set in the scope of
  the Project. See the [Variables](./Concepts.md) concept for more details.
- `variableChanges` : **[optional]** an array of [Variable Change](#variable-change) objects defining changes
  to be applied to variables in the scope of the [Project](../JSON.md#project) should the containing [Project
  Rule](../JSON.md#project-rule) condition be met. This allows augmenting the value rather than simply
  overwriting it. See the [Variables](./Concepts.md#variables) concept for details.
 
### Property Change

```json
{
    "name" : "",
    "oper" : "",
    "value" : ""
}
```

- `oper` : 
  - `cmake_list_append`

### Source

```json
{
    "properties" : {},
    "propertyChanges" : []
}
```

### Test

An object representing a [Test](./Concepts.md#tests).

```json
{
    "arguments" : [],
    "command" : "",
    "configurations" : [],
    "name" : "",
    "properties" : {},
    "propertyChanges" : [],
    "rules" : [],
}
```

- `arguments` : **[optional]** the list of arguments to be passed to the `command`. Any of the arguments can
  be a [Generator
  Expression](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generator-expressions.7.html#manual:cmake-generator-expressions(7)).
- `command` : **[required]** the command to be executed. This may be one of the following:
  - The name of an executable module provided by the package itself
  - The name of an executable module in another package of the form `<package>::<module>`, where `<package>`
    is the name of the package containing the module and `<module>` is the name of the executable module
  - A path to a script or executable to be executed. If this is a relative path, the path is relative to the
    directory containing the file that defines the package.
  - A [Generator Expression](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generator-expressions.7.html#manual:cmake-generator-expressions(7)).
- `configurations` : **[optional]** the list of configurations for which to run the test.
- `name` : **[required]** the name of the test. This name must be unique to the package.
- `properties` : **[optional]** the values of properties on the test, where the key is the name of the [Test
  Property](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-properties.7.html#properties-on-tests) and the
  value is the value of the property. This will overwrite the value inherited from the [Package
  Extension](#package-extension)

### Variable Change






























































































### Environment Modification

An object defining an environment modification for the
[`ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION.html)
property on a test, whose properties are as follows:

```json
{
    "name" : "",
    "oper" : "",
    "value" : ""
}
```

- `name` : **[required]** the name of the environment variable to modify.
- `oper` : **[required]** the operation to perform on the environment variable. This may be one of the
  following:
  - `cmake_list_append` : Appends `value` as a string to a CMake list in the `name` environment variable with
    the `;` separator.
  - `cmake_list_prepend` : Prepends `value` as a string to a CMake list in the `name` environment variable
    with the `;` separator.
  - `path_list_append` : Appends `value` as a path to a list of paths in the `name` environment variable with
    the appropriate path separator (`;` on Windows and `:` elsewhere).
  - `path_list_prepend` : Prepends `value` as a path to a list of paths in the `name` environment variable
    with the appropriate path separator (`;` on Windows and `:` elsewhere).
  - `reset` : Reset to the unmodified value, ignoring all modifications to MYVAR prior to this entry. Note
    that this will reset the variable to the value set by ENVIRONMENT, if it was set, and otherwise to its
    state from the rest of the CTest execution.
  - `set` : Replaces the value of the variable `name` with the `value`.
  - `string_append` : Appends the string `value` to the end of the `name` environment variable.
  - `string_prepend` : Prepends the string `value` to the beginning of the `name` environment variable.
  - `unset` : Unsets the value of the `name` environment variable.
- `value` : **[conditionally required]** the value used to modify the environment variable.

See the [documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION.html) for
environment modification for details on this behavior. Newer versions of CMake may support new operations.

### Package Extension Rule

This object defines a rule to apply to a [Package Extension](#package-extension) to alter it under certain
[Conditions](../JSON.md#condition). The properties of this object are as follows:

```json
{
    "condition" : {},
    "continue" : true,
    "tests" : {},
    "testFixtures" : {},
    "testResources" : {}
}
```

- `condition` : **[optional]** the [Condition](../JSON.md#condition) under which the rule will be applied. If
  omitted, the rule is always applied.
- `continue` : **[optional]** if the `condition` matches and this is `false`, the following rules will not be
  processed. If this is `true` (the default), processing always continues to the next rule.
- `tests` : **[optional]** inserts additional [Tests](#test) into the `tests` property of the containing
  [Package Extension](#package-extension). If a name in this object is the same as the name of a test on the
  containing [Package Extension](#package-extension), the test on the original package extension is
  essentially overwritten. If omitted, no changes are made to the tests.
- `testFixtures` : **[optional]** inserts additional [Test Fixtures](#test-fixture) into the `testFixtures`
  property of the containing [Package Extension](#package-extension). If a name in this object is the same as
  the name of a test fixture on the containing [Package Extension](#package-extension), the test fixture on
  the original package extension is essentially overwritten. If omitted, no changes are made to the test fixtures.
- `testResources` : **[optional]** overrides the `testResources` property on the containing [Package
  Extension](#package-extension) by replacing with a different [Test Resources](#test-resources) object. If
  omitted, the test resources on the [Package Extension](#package-extension) remain unchanged.

### Test

Defines a [Test](./Concepts.md#tests) object with the following properties:

```json
{
    "failRegEx" : "",
    "fixtures" : [],
    "labels" : [],
    "measurement" : "",
    "passRegEx" : "",
    "processors" : 1,
    "processorAffinity" : false,
    "requiredFiles" : [],
    "resourceGroups" : [],
    "resourceLocks" : [],
    "rules" : [],
    "runCondition" : {},
    "runSerial" : false,
    "skipRegex" : "",
    "skipReturnCode" : 0,
    "timeout" : 0,
    "timeoutAfterRegex" : {},
    "timeoutSignalGracePeriod" : 1.0,
    "timeoutSignal" : "",
    "willFail" : false,
    "workingDirectory" : ""
}
```

- `attachedFiles` : **[optional]** a list of paths to files that will be attached to the dashboard submission.
  If these are relative paths, they are relative to the build directory for the package and target. This is
  used to initialize the [`ATTACHED_FILES`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ATTACHED_FILES.html)
  property on the test.
- `attachedFilesOnFailure` : **[optional]** a list of paths to files that will be attached to the dashboard
  submission if the test fails. This is used to initialize the
  [`ATTACHED_FILES_ON_FAIL`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ATTACHED_FILES_ON_FAIL.html) property
  on the test.
- `cost` : **[optional]** the cost of the test, which is used to determine the order of execution of tests (in
  descending order of cost). This is used to initialize the
  [`COST`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/COST.html) property on the test. If omitted, the
  default cost is `0`.
- `dependencies` : **[optional]** the list of names of tests upon which this test depends. The tests whose
  names are listed here must finish before this test will start. This is used to initialize the
  [DEPENDS](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/DEPENDS.html) property on the test.
- `disabled` : **[optional]** if `true`, the test will not be executed and will be listed as "Not Run". This
  is used to initialize the [`DISABLED`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/DISABLED.html) property
  on the test. If omitted, the test is not disabled.
- `environment` : **[optional]** an object defining the environment variables with which the test will be
  executed, where the keys are the environment variable names and the values are the string values of the
  environment variables. This is used to initialize the
  [`ENVIRONMENT`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ENVIRONMENT.html) property on the test.
- `environmentModifications` : **[optional]** a list of all modifications to environment variables. This is
  used to initialize the
  [`ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION.html)
  property on the test. This is an alternative to overriding environment variables with the `environment`
  property. The values in this list are either strings whose format is defined on the definition of the
  [`ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/ENVIRONMENT_MODIFICATION.html) or
  alternatively can use the [Environment Modification](#environment-modification) object instead. The list can
  contain any combination of strings or [Environment Modification](#environment-modification) objects.
- `failRegEx` : **[optional]** a regular expression used to determine whether a test failed from the output
  of the command (STDOUT and STDERR). This is used to initialize the
  [`FAIL_REGULAR_EXPRESSION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/FAIL_REGULAR_EXPRESSION.html) on
  the test. If omitted, the output of the test is not considered in determining the failure of the test.
- `fixtures` : **[optional]** a list of names of [Fixtures](#test-fixture) that are used by the test. This is
  used to initialize the
  [`FIXTURES_REQUIRED`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/FIXTURES_REQUIRED.html) property of the
  test. If omitted, the test requires no fixtures to run.
- `labels` : **[optional]** a list of strings defining lables used to filter the tests. This is used to
  initialize the [`LABELS`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/LABELS.html) property on the test.
- `measurement` : **[optional]** the measurement to report for the test. This is used to initialize the
  [`MEASUREMENT`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/MEASUREMENT.html) property of the test.
- `passRegEx` : **[optional]** a regular expression used to dtermine whether a test passed from the output of
  the command (STDOUT and STDERR). This is used to initialize the
  [`PASS_REGULAR_EXPRESSION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/PASS_REGULAR_EXPRESSION.html)
  property on the test. If omitted, the output is not considered in the determination of test success.
- `processors` : **[optional]** the number of processor slots the test requires. This is used to initilize the
  [`PROCESSORS`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/PROCESSORS.html) property on the test. If omitted, the default value is `1`.
- `processorAffinity` : **[optional]** if `true`, the test is given affinity to the `processors` given. This
  is used to initialize the
  [`PROCESSOR_AFFINITY`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/PROCESSOR_AFFINITY.html) property on
  the test. If omitted, the processor affinity is not guranteed for the processor slots dedicated to this
  test.
- `requiredFiles` : **[optional]** the list of paths to files that are required to exist for the test to run.
  If relative, the paths are relative to the `workingDirectory` in which the test is run. This is used to
  initialize the [`REQUIRED_FILES`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/REQUIRED_FILES.html)
  property on the test.
- `resourceGroups` : **[optional]** the list of resource groups required by the test. Each entry in this list
  is a [Test Resource Groups](#test-resource-groups) object or a string as defined in the documentation for
  the [RESOURCE_GROUPS](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/RESOURCE_GROUPS.html) test property,
  which this list is used to initialize.
- `resourceLocks` : **[optional]** a list of strings defining resources that are locked by this test. Entries
  in this list are guaranteed to cause this test to not run concurrently with another test that locks any of
  the same resources. This is used to initialize the
  [`RESOURCE_LOCK`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/RESOURCE_LOCK.html) property on the test.
- `rules` : **[optional]** the [Test Rules](#test-rule) that alter the test based on certain conditions.
- `runCondition` : **[required]** the [Condition](../JSON.md#condition) under which the test will be run.
  this is omitted, the test will always be run for every target.
- `runSerial` : **[optional]** if `true`, this test will not be run in parallel with any other tests. This is
  used to initialize the [`RUN_SERIAL`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/RUN_SERIAL.html) on the
  test. If omitted, the test may run in parallel with other tests.
- `skipRegEx` : **[optional]** the regular expression used to determine whether a test is to be considered
  skipped by matching against the output (STDOUT and STDERR) of the test. This is used to initialize the
  [`SKIP_REGULAR_EXPRESSION`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/SKIP_REGULAR_EXPRESSION.html)
  property on the test. If omitted, the output of the test will not be considered in determining if the test
  was skipped.
- `skipReturnCode` : **[optional]** the return code of a test that is used to consider a test to be skipped.
  This is used to initialize the
  [`SKIP_RETURN_CODE`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/SKIP_RETURN_CODE.html) property on the
  test. If omitted, the return code will not be considered in determining if the test was skipped.
- `timeout` : **[optional]** the maximum amount of time (in seconds) the test will run before it is
  automatically terminated. This is used to initialize the
  [`TIMEOUT`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/TIMEOUT.html) property on the test. If omitted,
  the test will never timeout unless CTest is run with a timeout option specified.
- `timeoutAfterRegex` : **[optional]** changes the `timeout` of a [Test](#test) when a regular expression is
  matched. The value of this property is a [Timeout Regex](#test-timeout-regex) object. This is used to
  initialize the
  [`TIMEOUT_AFTER_MATCH`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/TIMEOUT_AFTER_MATCH.html) property of
  the test. If omitted, the `timeout` will be used under all conditions of the test.
- `timeoutSignalGracePeriod` : **[conditionally required]** specifies the time (in floating point seconds) to
  wait for a test to terminate after the `timeoutSignal` is sent. This is used to initialize the
  [`TIMEOUT_SIGNAL_GRACE_PERIOD`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/TIMEOUT_SIGNAL_GRACE_PERIOD.html)
  property on the test. This property is required if the `timeoutSignal` property is defined. If omitted, the
  grace period defaults to `1.0` seconds.
- `timeoutSignal` : **[optional]** the name of the signal to be sent to the process when the `timeout` is
  reached. This may be `SIGINT`, `SIGQUIT`, `SIGTERM`, `SIGUSR1`, or `SIGUSR2`. This is used to initialize the
  [`TIMEOUT_SIGNAL_NAME`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/TIMEOUT_SIGNAL_NAME.html) on the test.
  If omitted, no signal is sent to the process to terminate ie when the `timeout` is reached.
- `willFail` : **[optional]** if `true`, the test is expected to fail, meaning the failure status is negated.
  If omitted, the process is expected to succeed. This is used to initialize the
  [`WILL_FAIL`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/WILL_FAIL.html) property on the test.
- `workingDirectory` : **[optional]** the working directory where the test will be executed. If this is a
  relative path, the path is relative to the directory containing the file that defined the package. If a path
  relative to the build directory is desired, a [Path Substitution](./Concepts.md#path-substitutions) can be
  used instead. If this is omitted, the build directory for the package and target is used. This may also be
  defined using a [Generator Expression](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generator-expressions.7.html#manual:cmake-generator-expressions(7)).

### Test Resource Group

An object that defines the resource requirements for a [Resource Groups](#test-resource-groups) definition,
which is in turn used to initialize the
[RESOURCE_GROUPS](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/RESOURCE_GROUPS.html) property on a test. The
properties of this object are as follows:

```json
{
    "count" : 1,
    "name" : ""
}
```

- `name` : **[required]** the name of the resource needed by the group.
- `count` : **[required]** the quantity of slots of the resource needed by the group.

### Test Resource Groups

An object that defines test resource groups for the
[RESOURCE_GROUPS](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_test/RESOURCE_GROUPS.html) property on a test. The
properties on this object are as follows:

```json
{
    "count" : 1,
    "resources" : []
}
```

- `count` : **[optional]** the number of groups to define. If omitted, a count of `1` is used.
- `resources` : **[required]** the resources required by the groups. Each entry in this list is a [Test
  Resource Group](#test-resource-group).

### Test Timeout Regex

An object that alters the `timeout` of a [Test](#test) when a regular expression matches a line in the output
of the test program (STDOUT and STDERR). The properties of this object are:

```json
{
    "regex" : "",
    "timeout" : 1
}
```

- `regex` : **[required]** the regular expression that will be matched against the output of the test.
- `timeout` : **[required]** the new timout value in seconds.
